
# Alfred Password Generator #

Generate secure random passwords from Alfred.


## Features ##

- Passwords can be generated based on strength or length.
- Offers multiple generators, including based on real words and pronounceable pseudo-words generated with Markov chains.
- Shows the strength of each generated password.


## Usage ##

- `pwgen [<strength>]` — Generate passwords of specified strength. Default is `3` (96 bits of entropy). See [Password strength](#password-strength) for details.
- `pwlen [<length>]` — Generate passwords of specified length. Default is `20`. See [Password strength](#password-strength) for details.
- `pwconf` — View and edit workflow settings. See [Configuration](configuration) for details.

**Note:** Word-based generators may provide passwords that are slightly longer than `<length>`.


## Password strength ##

Passwords can be specified either by strength or length. The default strength is `3`, which is approx. 90 bits of entropy (each level is 32 bits). You may also specify the desired number of bits by appending `b` to your input, e.g. `pwgen 128b` will provide at least 128 bits of entropy.

Default length is 20 characters, which can provide ~50 to ~130 bits of entropy depending on generator.

Each password has its strength in the result subtitle. This is shown either as a bar or in bits of entropy, depending on your settings. Each full block in the bar represents 30 bits of entropy.

### How strong should my passwords be? ###

That depends on what you're using it for and how long you want it to remain secure. As of 2015, custom password-guessing hardware (built from standard PC components) can guess **&gt;45 billion passwords per second.**

The average number of guesses required to crack a password *n* bits is 2<sup>n-1</sup>, so 2,147,483,647 guesses for a 32-bit password. Or **0.048 seconds** with the above hardware.

Fortunately, every added bit doubles the number of possible passwords, so 64 bits is a good deal stronger: 6.5 **years** on average to guess on the same hardware.

| Level   | Min. entropy          | Time to guess&nbsp;\*                         | Application                               |
| ------: | --------------------: | --------------:                               | ---------------------------               |
| 1       | 32&nbsp;bits          | 0.048 seconds                                 | Stuff you want to be super easy to crack? |
| 2       | 64&nbsp;bits          | 6.5 years                                     | Web accounts, WiFi passwords              |
| 3       | 96&nbsp;bits          | 280 million years                             | Almost anything                           |
| 4       | 128&nbsp;bits         | billions of times the age of the universe | Encryption keys                           |

\* = based on 45 billions guesses per second.

The default password strength level of 3 (96 bits) provides very secure passwords.

The default password length of 20 characters provides reasonably to very secure passwords, depending on the generator.


#### How can passwords of the same strength have different levels of security? ####

Passwords of the same length (or even the self-same password) generated using different techniques have different strengths because the strength is determined by the permutations in the algorithm and the password length.

For example, the single-digit password `1` has an entropy of 3.32 bits when generated by the Numeric algorithm because it is one of only 10 possible one-digit passwords. The same password generated by the ASCII algorithm has an entropy of 5.95 bits because it is one of 62 possible one-character passwords.

See [Password strength on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Password_strength#Random_passwords) for more information.


## Configuration ##

Not implemented yet.
